HTML
    for designing and structure of the web page
    HyperText Markup Language
    HyperText -- Link between web pages
    Markup Language - Text between tags which defines structure
    It is used to create web pages
    It forms or defines the structure of web page
    to save html file use .html extension

    Notepad++
    Bracket
    SublimeText
    VS code
HTML Element
    An HTML element is an individual component of an HTML document.
To generate Skeleton in VS Code 
    !+Enter
Headings
    used in definig hierarchy and the structure of the web page content
    <h1> through <h6>
Paragraphs
    It is used to publish text on the web page
<br> -- is used to insert a line break on the web page
<hr> -- It is used to  create horizontal rules or lines to visually separate content sections on a web page.
&nbsp -- for creating extra consecutive spaces
<pre> -- it is used to display spaces, tabs, line breaks

Non Semantic tags
    <span> -- inline container
    it has no default style 
    if you needed to group texts that you want to keep together inline
    <div> -- block container
    by using this tag we can group a lot of tags together to make up a section of the website
HTML Links
    A link or hyperlink is a connection from one web resource to another.
    href -- this specifies the target of the link.
    target -- it tells the browser where to open the linked document.

        _blank - opens the link document in a new window or tab
        _parent - in parent window
        _self - in same window
        _top - in the full browser window

HTML -- to create content for the web page
CSS -- to style the content on the web page
JS -- to interact with the content
Foramtting tags

CSS types
    inline styles -- using style attribute in the HTML start tag
    Embedded styles -- using the <style> element in the head section of the document
    External styles -- using the <link> element, pointing to an external css files.
HTML Tables
    It allows you to arrange data into rows and columns.
    <table>

    </table>
cellpadding-- it specifies the space between the border of a table cell and its content.

cellspacing-- it specifies the space between the cells

List
    it is used to represent list of information in a well formed and semantic way.

    Unordered List - used to create a list of related items , in no particular order
    Ordered List - used to create a list of related items, in a specific order
    Description List - used to create a list of terms and their description

Website Layouts
    Creating website layout is the activity of postioning the various elements that mnake a web page in a well-structured manner

    Table based Layout
    Div based Layout
    HTML5 structural elements base layout
HTML forms
    These are required to collect different kinds of user inputs.
Form Input Controls
    Text Field
        These are one line areas that allow the user to input text
    Password Field
        These are similar to text fields. 
        The only difference is charcaters in a password field are masked.
    Radio button
        These are used to let the user select exactly one option from a pre defined set of options
    Checkboxes
        It allows the user to select one or more options from a pre-defined set of options.
    File Select box
        It allows the user to browse for a local file and send it as an attachment with the form data
    Submit and Reset buttons
        Submit button is used to send the form data to a web server
        Reset button is used to reset all the form fields to default values
    Textarea
        It is a multiple-line text input control 
    Select box
        it is a dropdown list of options